hi everyone la Isla Montgomery again
coming your way as always from the china
history podcast calm but not every week
as advertised lightning strikes twice
and once again were a couple weeks in
between episodes my apologies for that
after our little xi jinping interlude
we're heading back to the Silk Road to
see what else there is to know in the
first part of the Silk Road series we
did that general overview of the
geography of the Silk Road and who the
major players were our focus was mainly
on the early years particularly during
the Han Dynasty
we looked mainly at the trade of luxury
goods and other kinds of products and we
took another look at the always
entertaining and inspiring life of Jang
Jin but the Silk Road it was more than a
trade route it was the main conduit for
ideas and information that went back and
forth between the Far East and the Far
West these ideas included everything
Buddhism had to offer as well as the
introduction of other religions today
we're focusing more on the religious
aspect of how important the Silk Road
was to the spread of Buddhism in China
but as far as a mechanism to move all
the great ideas and knowledge back and
forth between East and West the Silk
Roads and all these centers of Commerce
and learning and in tashkent Samarkand
fall coat on cash cart or five merv bow
Hara ideas spread from place to place
and after hundreds of years these places
on opposite sides of the known world and
in between their ideas got passed back
and forth and everything fed on
everything so that by this period mid
7th century you'll see mankind really
kicks into a higher gear as far as the
time in between great events brought on
by new ideas and innovations to me the
commercial aspect of the Silk Road
really played a secondary role
to the importance of the Silk Road as
the main east-west south pipeline for
the dissemination of information in ways
of looking at and understanding things
in this episode we look at another Silk
Road here oh this one maybe is the most
interesting one of all today we're going
to focus on the legendary Buddhist monk
shinsen shinsung lived during the reign
of China's greatest emperor well top two
or three maybe arguably this was the
early tang dynasty emperor and
co-founder tongue-tied zone yes the
greatly shermeen son of li Ren who
founded the Tong and reigned as tonkatsu
the tongue peaks twice once under tongue
tied zone and once under Tang Shen song
the latter again of the voluptuous young
qui fais Fame Emperor tongue-tied zone
was born in five ninety-nine and Shen
sang was born in 602 they were roughly
the same age so this is one of the many
interesting elements that makes Shen
Zhong more than just your average
interesting character from Chinese
history his life was very much tied to
his contemporary tongue-tied zone they
knew each other well the tight zone
Emperor he was a major force of nature
and may I say not a particularly big fan
of Buddhism but he sure liked Shen sang
who had said became sort of a spiritual
advisor to the Emperor during the tight
zone Emperor's last years well let's
just go straight to the big elephant in
the room and just point to it and get it
out of the way shinsung besides the
entirety of his contribution to
translating disseminating and
popularizing Buddhist scriptures and
living this incredible life of perilous
journeys self-sacrifice devotion to
learning that aside he's perhaps best
known in the Chinese speaking world as
the inspiration and
one of the main characters in Watchung
UNH's 16th century literary classic
Journey to the West or she Yoji it is
his character the monk who Sun will cone
accompanies in this great folk epic and
of course along the way they run into
the pig jun-hyung and sha wujing the the
Kweli character who get to him in a
second
this novel along with the romance of the
three kingdoms dream of the red chamber
and water margin make up the four great
classical novels of Chinese literature
the sudah Ming Zhu I don't know maybe
you have to throw in Jinping may also
the Golden Lotus a Journey to the West
is the fictionalized version of Shan
Shan's
sixteen year journey which took place
between 629 and 645 will lead Journey to
the West to a later podcast suffice to
say our hero Shin Seung slipped out of
Chun on against the orders of the
Emperor title and headed west along the
Silk Road and he visited all the same
stops along the road that countless
other travelers and traders visited
since probably the time of Alexander the
Great
this journey took Shin sang from Chang
An to India he travelled extensively and
when as far south as Tamil Nadu Madras
Chennai his his travels and commentaries
were written down as demanded by the
Emperor and have come down to us today
as the Takashi ug or the great Tung
record on the western regions a lot of
his writings were part of the treasure
trove discovered in the caves at Don
Juan to supplement and complement Shin
songs own story was another record of
what happened this one by the monk
Whaley quail EES life of shinsung also
chronicles the journey he made as well
as Shan Zhang's whole background Whaley
is a whole other story but let's just
say he accompanies Shenzhen quite
extensively throughout his life as I
said the sha wujing character from
Journey to the West is based on shin
sans trusty aide to Camp Haley so
Shenzhen he did a lot in his 62 years on
this planet his very well-known and
sincere devotion to his religion was
rivaled only by his profound commitment
buddhist scholarship and bringing two
Chinese Buddhists the wisdom that had
previously been available only in
Sanskrit and other ancient Indian
languages he also leaves a rich legacy
in presenting Chinese culture to an
admiring audience there's more to China
than the Great Wall the Grand Canal the
amazing palaces and scenery Shen Zhang
served as a very capable ambassador to
disseminate many of the ideas customs
and ways of doing things that were
commonplace in China he was the right
man at the right time to present this
rich culture to an accepting audience
let's start at the beginning and get our
bearings as far as where we are in China
we know the tongue begins so around 618
after the fall of the sway
dynasty and the sway of course they were
the ones Emperor wen and Emperor yang
they unified China first time since the
hot and brought order out of chaos and
their achievements primed the pump for
the Tong but the important part as far
as our little story is concerned is they
at these two Emperor's they were big
supporters of Buddhism but not for the
obvious reasons - Emperor wen and yang
of sway they saw Buddhist monks and
clergy as useful tools and their
political games with the Confucian
bureaucrat elites so the sway dynasty it
not only made everything smooth and nice
for the time politically but for
Buddhism in China as well from the start
of the tongue for a good hundred years
there's a nice golden age that happens
for Buddhism in China then there's some
trouble afterwards at yin but once the
emperor xuanzong begins his reign the
Tong has another even more golden of an
age and then the an Lu Xiang rebellion
happens
so much for the time all good things
come to an end now this is a little
confusing our subject today is Shenzhen
that's second town fourth town for all
you Mandarin speakers out there but you
also have the Emperor who I just
mentioned shinsung those two names
shinsung and shin tone sound very
familiar in both were Tang Dynasty
historical personages but different
tones different pinyin only separated by
a single letter I've read that Shen sang
was born near law yang as well as in
Sichuan but all accounts agree he was
born in the year 602
he was born in a not particularly
well-to-do family and went back for
generations and had spawned one
Confucian scholar after another writings
have indicated that Shen sang was in
every way an exceptional child with
regard to his seriousness about learning
and understanding the world around him
his older brother had entered a Buddhist
monastery and young-shin song seemed at
an early age desirous to follow in his
brother's footsteps so off he went to a
monastery and law Yong and from that
point on his life was essentially
devoted to Buddhism and finding the
truth and preserving it for others cream
always rises to the top and in no time
at all Shen Zhong had made his way to
the temple of great learning in the
capital in Chang An these monks at this
temple primarily devoted themselves to
translating the great books from India
and it was here where Shan Zhang was
trained in translation and
interpretation
it was also within this community of
monks that Shen Zhong gained that itch
to travel and seek out wisdom firsthand
of the two main branches of Buddhism
Mahayana and Theravada Shen Zhong
embraced the former by 622 he became a
fully ordained monk this was the year he
set out on his journey as well as the
year the Prophet Muhammad fled Mecca
North to Medina the Silk Road now
at this juncture has about 100 years
before it gets turned on its head that's
all for a future episode if you recall
in the Christian world we had the
Council of Nicaea in 325 this would be
in present day is Nick and Turkey not
too far south of Istanbul this council
was held to sort of get everyone to
agree on all things related to Christian
doctrine and faith because by this time
fourth century it was hard to make sense
of everything so much have been lost so
many teachings corrupted or changed or
bastardized Constantine the first the
great one
he called this meeting and he was
determined to get to the bottom of what
was what and of course you know
everything got all sorted out and so it
was with Buddhism and Buddhist
scriptures by the fifth or sixth
centuries in China it was hard to make
heads or tails of what was true and what
wasn't
the earliest writings that had made it
to China the translations were hardly
reliable in all kinds of liberties have
been taken to mould the sutras to fit
you know the Chinese sensibilities of
the second third and fourth centuries
and so this became the whole raison
d'etre of Shen songs journey or
pilgrimage Shen sang made the decision
that in order to satisfy his yearning
for truth and clarity in Buddhist
teachings he was going to go to India
himself where it all began and seek out
these original Buddhist scriptures
translate them study them and accumulate
as much as possible and then bring
everything back to China now
Shen sang was not the first person to
come up with his brainy idea before Shen
Zhang there was fashion from the eastern
jin period the eastern jin ran from 317
- 420 concurrent with the miserable
sixteen kingdoms and Six Dynasties
period in China fashion made that
journey first with an entourage
traveling from China to Nepal where he
visited the
of lumbini where Siddhartha Gautama the
Buddha was born in the mid to late sixth
century BC from there he went on to
India and Sri Lanka fashion was the
first one to leave behind a reliable
record of his journey from 399 to 412
it's called a record of Buddhist
kingdoms the travels of fashion were
well known and well documented at the
time the entirety of his account has
survived to this day the Golden Age of
these buddhist pilgrimages to india ran
from the end of the 4th century all the
way to the beginning of the 9th and 260
ad is as far back as the record goes as
far as you know Chinese traveling to the
Buddhist sources in India there isn't
much of a reliable record until about
the 5th century which is when these
pilgrimages became more frequent from
200 300 400 all the way up to the 9th
century this period saw an explosion of
back and forth travel between China and
India these Chinese Buddhist pilgrims
pretty much made it their mission to
track down every single crumb of
Buddhist wisdom and bring everything
back to China between 500 and 900
essentially everything of a Buddhist
nature that ever came out of India had
already been translated retranslated
documented commented on and printed on
paper the wealth of writings that were
produced and which survived to this day
is amazing everything dug out of
Dunhuang and made available to the world
by Aurel Stein all of that it was all
written during this four hundred year
golden time during the tongue the Five
Dynasties and into the song and of
course under the mongols of the yeren
dynasty well let's just say the share
prices and Buddhism take a major dive in
the market it wasn't just written works
that came out of this period Buddhists
are
and architecture enjoyed a heyday and
we're all fortunate that many of these
cave paintings giant statues
architectural wonders still survive
today like a fashion and many others
before him Shenzhen's
journey to India required him to walk
the Silk Road the Silk Road was not only
an artery that brought trade back and
forth between China and the rest of Asia
it was also the main pathway for
Buddhist pilgrims making the trek to
India Chinese Buddhists had been
traveling this route to India since the
second century AD and fashion took the
Silk Road to India and returned to China
by sea and the horrors of fashions
return voyage by sea and what he had to
go through were well known to shinsung
so no matter what when he made his
journey he was determined to make the
trek on dry land and avoid the watery
route Shenzhen's journey to India took
him along the northern routes again
which was south of the tension and north
of the Taklamakan desert and like most
all travelers all roads led to the oasis
town of kashgar which is located in
westernmost shinjang kashgar a town in
the news this past week from kashgar the
monk shinsen went on to Tashkent and
Samarkand and like many Buddhist
pilgrims before and after he made that
turn to the south towards Kashmir and
from there into the heart of India
shinsung took the northern Silk Road out
of China and after all those years of
travel when he returned to China he did
it be the southern route which rimmed
the south of the Taklamakan desert now
part of the legend of Shenzhen one of
the many little things that make this
story what it is
was that when Shenzhen decided to make
his long pilgrimage to find the original
Buddhist texts and sort out all the
confusion there was a travel ban in
place yes the Emperor himself as I said
tongue tight so he had issued an edict
that restricted travel outside of China
specifically the kind Shenzhen wanted to
take in defiance of this edict and after
receiving the omens he was looking for
Shen sang quietly left Chung on and
began heading west along the
superhighway of its day the sheet so
long
also known as the Gansu corridor it was
the logical route from China proper into
the Central Asian landmass he set his
sights first on the city of LAN cho
capital of Gansu Province and once named
in some recent poll as the most polluted
city in the world which made it also the
most polluted city in China I guess this
was a few years ago I recall I don't
know if it's better or worse today but
Liang Chow is sort of in the middle of
this elongated province Gansu shinsung
stayed at one of many Buddhist
monasteries there for about a month and
he created quite a sensation there and
began to establish his reputation as an
interpreter of texts and for his wisdom
sooner or later the Emperor's people out
there you know in so many words that hey
you know what are you doing way out here
you know what part of the Emperor's
edict you know didn't you understand so
once he was found out and came under
some heat Qian Zhang laid low and
travelled by night and hid by day until
with the help of many Buddhist followers
along the way he made his way to the
human pass the Jade gate the human Kuan
this gate built during the reign of who
else but the great Chinese emperor Han
will Dee whose ruins still stand today
just west of the important Silk Road
town of goon Wong this was the symbolic
end of China once you walk through this
Jade gate heading west
you officially ventured out into the
great unknown off you went the safe part
of the Silk Road was now behind you
nothing except the Taklamakan desert in
front of you Shen Zhong passed through
this gate and they were still several
you know Chinese sentries posted along
the road beyond the Jade gate but Shen
Zhou
stealthily avoided them mind you this is
not a pleasant walk through a wooded
forest this was a rough barren terrain
one horse had already died under him but
Shin sang was able to procure another as
well as a guide who had supposedly made
the trip before along the Silk Road but
as the legend goes this guide who
Shenzhen had been up with him said he
you know would lead him to his
destination he ended up trying to kill
Shin Sangin snuck up on him one night
knife in hand but as the story goes
shinsung at once seeing his predicament
appealed to the Bodhisattva Guanyin and
uttered some scripture in to his
amazement Shen song's guide put his
knife down and returned to his mat to go
back to sleep after a few nights of this
Shen Zhong got the hint and then sent
this guy away and made a secret
middle-of-the-night get away and off he
went into the vast desert wilderness by
himself read his book the tongue record
on the western regions for all the
minutia in this early part of his
Odyssey the desert climate threw
everything it had at Shen Zhong and the
chronicle of his suffering is woeful
indeed but his faith and devotion as
well as his horse's nose for where the
next well was got him through the worst
of everything and despite deprivation
and suffering that would have felled an
average man Shen Zhong made it to the
site of the next town named kao chung
this place was just to the south of the
well-known oasis town of turf on and
this is all in the Silk Road portion of
Xinjiang province by this time seventh
century AD the Silk Roads are not as
mysterious and threatening as they were
in the Han Dynasty days and a lot of
Buddhist traffic had passed going to and
coming from Chung on Shen Zhong by this
time had already gained a following and
reputation in the Buddhist world so this
this local head man of God Qiang you
know which included to her fan
he hears of Shenzhen's arrival and is so
elated in you know when shinsung arrives
he really gives him the hard sell about
you know settling permanently in Gao
Chun and using that place as a base from
which to study and teach the Scriptures
so under duress Shen Zhong agrees to
stay for a month and when he carries out
his end of the bargain
the head man or king of this region he
sets shinsung up right proper and he
gives him all the necessary comforts of
travel new garments boots plenty of coin
of the realm
horses transport and a couple dozen
servants the memories of his adventure
through the desert from land Cho de
Gaulle Chang is now nothing but a memory
he's now the 7th century equivalent of
flying in the front of the plane and off
he goes following the paths of the Silk
Road that countless others before him
had walked the north of the
Taklamakan desert till he arrives at
kashgar then setting off for Tashkent
and on to Samarkand he also encounters
and spends a good deal of time in the
company of the Western Turks and their
Great Khan Yahoo this leader Yahoo Khan
really took a liking to Shen Zhong and
tried to keep him for his very own
Shenzhen's observations that he made as
he traveled through Satya and bactria
clearly show that all the way up to this
point mid 7th century Central Asia was
still a very Buddhist place but that
wasn't gonna last for long though
one since a mark on the sardian
heartland the Pamir is the Pamir
mountains Chang was it was already out
of the way and one could then make a
beeline straight south into the Indian
subcontinent the Silk Road brought you
to the key market towns and buddhist
centers of ba ba Mian hada and Peshawar
the Gateway to the Indus River Valley
now I say these are Buddhist sin
even though the names of these places
Kabul Peshawar Srinagar in our 21st
century minds Buddhism isn't exactly
what we think of in those parts of the
world so in this time when shinsung is
just about to arrive in India it's about
eight years after the hijra so Islam is
only just getting started right about
this time some of you might recall the
pre 9/11 days back in March of 2001 the
Taliban leader called for the
destruction of the Magnificent Buddhist
statues at Bamiyan those statues had
stood there since 502 ad and Shenzen
himself not to mention fashion before
him saw these statues themselves with
their own eyes and all their glory when
they were passing through anyways they
stood there for over 15 centuries before
the Taliban had them dynamited on orders
from no less a person than mullah omar
himself i'm sure everyone remembers that
bit of news from eleven years ago just
trying to put that all in perspective
for this little episode so pretty soon
islam is gonna knock on Central Asia's
door and things are never gonna be the
same again and all of this has a huge
impact on the rhythm of the Silk Road in
the established ways of doing things
well sixteen years after he left China
shinsung made his way back to Chung on
Francis woods Silk Road book that I used
for podcast 74 described the motherlode
that he returned with she said he
carried six Buddhist figures of gold
silver and sandalwood and scriptures
contained in six hundred and fifty seven
volumes that were carried on the backs
of twenty horses this was everything
there was from seven of the main schools
of Buddhist thought I'd give you their
names but I wouldn't do the Sanskrit
justice so by my rough calculation
that's about a 40-foot container load
that shinsen came back with so part of
the legend of Shenzhen can
earns his triumphant return in 645 to
chang on bringing with him all these
buddhist treasures that were going to
play such a big part in stoking the
fires of tang dynasty buddhism the
interesting part concerns the contrast
between his you know triumphant return
and shen Zhang's stealthy departure from
china in defiance of the great emperor
tongue-tied song's edict that put a
temporary ban and travel so he snuck out
of town in the middle of the night but
now he was coming back with this you
know magnificent public display and he
was personally welcomed back by the
tides own emperor who is still very much
in power and for the remainder of his
days Qian Zhang devoted himself to his
faith translating many of the works he
carted back from India as well as
writing his personal history the Shi
Yugi or great Tung record on the western
regions again this book was written in
Shinzon's hand by royal command of the
Emperor himself and this work survives
to this day so we have shin sans
personal account of his trials and
tribulations and like I said we also
have corroborating evidence from his
loyal assistant Wei Lee who wrote his
version of events and also painted on
the walls of caves and done Wong are
depictions of Shang Tsung's return to
Chung ah it really happened folks no
one's making this stuff up for those 16
years on the road he spent a great deal
of time living and studying at many of
the great centers of Buddhism in India
he traveled all over and spent most of
his time on the road and he's said to
have traveled about 15,000 kilometers
going as far south like I said is to
Tamil Nadu not that she wasn't popular
already but Shenzhen did much to
popularize the Bodhisattva Guanyin and
his devotion to guan yin was well known
she became more and more popular to the
Chinese who sort of adopted her as their
own and she remains popular to this day
is the goddess of mercy so Shen sang
turned down offers to join the Imperial
Circle and opted instead to establish a
base of operations from which to carry
out his scholarly pursuits in this place
where he served out his days is none
other than the great pagoda of the wild
goose the diantha erected during the
reign of tides own son and successor tom
calzone it is located in Xi'an which
back then of course was called Chang An
this is where most all the swag xuanzong
had brought back from India was kept and
here he set himself up patronized to the
gills translating Buddhist works and
spreading the word this five-story
pagoda built in 652 it initially fell
into disrepair and got a once-over
Underwood's attend you all remember her
Podcast chp 7 she fixed it up and it
made it all the way to the Ming Dynasty
were it got another fixing up then in
1964 in between the Great Leap Forward
and the Cultural Revolution it had yet
another renovation so go see it one day
it offers you nice views of the historic
city of Xian it was easy now you know
printing paper you know making books by
the 646 50s it was all old hat to the
Chinese all this new technology it all
came perfectly just in time to
efficiently get the word out in a mass
way and we could see how you know
Gutenberg eight centuries after Shin
sang how important printing was to the
spread of Christianity it was the exact
same thing with Buddhism in the early
part of the Tong period with the printed
word scripture as well as the
interpretation of Scripture as well as
news and information it travelled a lot
faster than ever before in history
Shenzhen was one of the earliest
beneficiaries of these two of the four
great inventions
there was a topic we looked at in the
CHP number three episode
Shin sang outlived his benefactor the
tight song Emperor
and when tangled song became the Emperor
at 6:49 he declared Shen sang the jewel
of the Empire and just as his
predecessor that tight song Emperor did
the GAO song Emperor made sure there was
always enough money to support all the
endeavors of shinza
Shenzhen's legacy along with Koo Mirage
IVA translator of the Lotus in Diamond
sutras known as Jo more austere who
lived 344 to 413 Shen songs impact on
Buddhism and Buddhist thought it knew no
rivals no one translated more books on
Buddhism than Shenzhen in toto he is
credited with 72 works that were printed
on more than a thousand Scrolls but
again it is the book Journey to the West
GOG that he is best remembered it was
his spectacular journey and the magical
accounts of it that he wrote about in
his travelogue that inspired this great
work and for the importance of this work
in the whole of Chinese culture Shen
Zhong is best remembered so thanks for
listening once again keep those emails
and topic ideas coming I just changed
over to a new server so the recent
problems we've been having with that
iTunes feed should be behind us once and
for all
I hope and like I've been falsely
promising for so long I do plan to get
all those enhancements done on the
website I know a lot of you are asking
about listing all the spelling and
Chinese characters for all the names of
places events and people in each episode
rest assured it's coming along with
everything else
for now I'm sorry you're just stuck with
only these mp3s
this is Lazlo Montgomery wishing all of
you the very best and back home in
Claremont and hoping to keep it that way
but as of yesterday morning I'm seeing
the storm clouds starting to gather and
I smell a spate of East Coast trips
ahead of me towards the latter half of
this month thanks for listening to this
episode of the China
Street podcast take care all